---
layout: post
author: Tim_M
---

The concept of reuse of code and data is a central priciple of programming.  
**SOZ-LIVE** takes this concept and expands on it.


## Background


In CAD, everytime you want to specify the Origin for the insertion point of a Block, or the start point of a line, centre of a circle etc. you have to type in `0,0,0`.  
Why?, when it is just a constant, the same as the value `0.0` is for the Type **Real**, but for a Type of object called a **Point**.
We already have the WCS, which is a constant for the Type of **TMatrix**, for the standard origin and orientation of space, so why not an Origin?

Extend that concept further...

What if you have a point, say `40.0,20.0,10.0` that you want to repeatedly use during the drawing of multiple entities etc.?
It would be best to be able to save this Point and be able to reuse it again and again.

But what if the point you want is actually made of calculated coordinates, with a base value being `10.0` and 

- the X-coordinate being `x4` the base value
- the Y-Coordinate being `x2` the base value
- the Z-Coordinate being equal to the base value.

Then later on you want to be able to change the base value to `8.5` and the X-Coodrdinate factor to be `x3` instead of `x4`?
And after you change the value of the Point, you want every Object and Entity using it to update to the new value?

You would need to program CAD to achieve all of that, or just use **SOZ-LIVE** and get all of that built in and more.


## Code Reuse


Code reuse is achieved through the use of Types/Classes, one of the concepts of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP).  
A Type, such as a Point Entity (**AcDbPoint** to be specific) enables the creation of Objects of that Class by specifying arguments, including one which is a geometric Point Class.  
This geometric Point can be constructed in a number of ways, including by specifying X, Y, Z coordinates (a **SZGEPoint** Class), or by sub-types of that class, such as the Mid-Point of a Line (a **SZGEPoint-Line-MidPoint** Class).  
(There are currently 24 sub-types of **SZGEPoint** available for use within **SOZ-LIVE**, one of them being **SZGEPoint-Origin**, which has the value of `(0.0 0.0 0.0)`)

By adhering to the Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP), the hierarchy of Types / Classes used within **SOZ-LIVE** enables the minimum of code to be written for each class and maximises the amount of code reuse.


## Data Reuse


Entities and Objects, instances of Types/Classes, created in the Model (during the run-time of the program) enables the reuse of Data.  
Whether it is a **Real**, say of value `0.0`, or an object, with an **ID** of, say `"#O#A3"` with values stored as state within the Object, each Type is either a **Value** or an **Object**.

This enables deep, complex relationships of Values and Objects to be created, enabling examples, like the one in the Background section above, to be specified and then visualised in **LIVE** for further editing and updting of the Model.

When creating Objects, the required Type for the argument is shown in the dialog box. When making an object to fill that argument, you are given choices of all Types that are sub-types or equivalent types (ie they Interface with that Type) to choose from.

You also have the ablilty to Select from existing Objects of the suitable Type, in a List dialog box. (yes, even a **List** is a Type)


## Conclusion


At its core, **SOZ-LIVE** is about the reuse of Code and Data, in the form of Types/Classes and Objects.  

It also provides additonal abilities, such as a consistent Graphical User Interface (GUI) and a Node-based UI, **LIVE**, with the ability to edit and update the created objects and entities to enable iterative modelling.
